In the last lecture we created a service and they told you to not instantiated on your own.
I told you that angular offers some great tool which will give us access to our services.
It's angler's dependency injector.
What is a dependency injector.
Well a dependency is something a class of ours will depend on.
For example D-New account component depends on the logging service because you want to call a method
in that service and the dependency injector simply injects this dependency injects an instance of this
class into our component automatically.
All we need to do is we need to inform angler that we require a set chain instance.
So how do we inform angler's that we require as instance we add a constructor to the class to the component.
In this case where we want to use our service.
So there I can bind it to a property by using these types of shortcut of adding an excess or in front
of the name of the argument to instantly create a property with the same name and bind de-valued to
it.
So here I will name this logging service.
This name is totally up to you.
Now this is the important part here though at A-type assignment here.
This is not optional.
You need to set the type and to type has to be the class you want to get injected.
Logging service in this case make sure to also add the import at the top.
Now let me close the body of this constructor and this simple task here informs angler that we will
need an instance of this logging service correct.
You might ask well how do we inform angle or why does this matter if we write this in the constructor.
Think about who gives us the instance of this account component is new account component here.
This is a type of class.
And so some where this needs to get instantiated so that something happens in our app.
Well who is responsible for creating our components.
Angular is of course because we are replacing selectors in our templates and when angler comes across
these selectors it gives us instances of our components Nelson's angular is responsible for instantiating
our components angular we'll need to construct them correctly.
So if we define in the constructor that we require some argument angular will recognize this and now
it tries to give us that argument it give it tries to give us does well type in this case so it knows
we want an instance of the logging service class because we defined a type.
Does this why this is important.
Now that is almost enough but not quite.
Now angular knows what we want but it doesn't know how to give us such an instance.
We need to do one additional step.
We need to provide a service provide simply means we tell Engler how to create it.
And that sounds very complicated and it is very simple.
All we have to do is add one extra property to the ADD component decorator.
The provider's property here this also takes an array like our properties we add up before.
And here we again just have to specify the type of what you want to be able to get provided you could
say so logging service again.
Now with that angular when analyzing the component recognizes that it should be able to give us such
a logging service and it will set itself up to be able to do so.
And when it then actually builds to component constructs it sees that we want to have such instance
and it will know how to give us such an instance.
And now we can simply in our component anywhere in this component us our logging service property which
is created automatically since I use this typescript shortcut here and call log status change.
So now I'm not creating that instance manually angle or does it for us.
And why is this better than creating it manually.
You will see some advantages later.
But this basically lets us stay in the angler eco system an angler knows how your app works.
Again some I read vantages will come up later.
So with this we now have the same code as before.
So if we have a look at our application again and create a new account we still see the log here depending
on which status we chose here.
So this still works but now we're injecting the service.
Now let's all to do the same by copying that the account component here.
So you're also at the constructor.
And of course here we also know that you need to add the import because typescript needs to know where
does logging service comes from not and your typescript.
And also at my provider of course because for this component to I need to inform Engleton how to create
this logging service.
So if we do this and then go back to the application here I would reload create a news service again
this works.
Now let's change the status.
And there's also still works.
Now of course because I didn't replace this year so let's call the logging service now.
Ankle Lock status change and pass the status.
Now if we saved this and tried to change this it still works.
So now we get this same logging functionality outsourced centralized in a service and therefore our
code here is a bit cleaner and I guess you can imagine how in bigger applications where you have duplicate
code a service can really help you to get more dry.
You don't repeat yourself all the time but instead to really cleverly outsource your code into a service
and have their